US President Joe Biden has unveiled a
plan to allow humanitarian Aid
deliveries into the Gaza Strip through
Egypt Israel has confirmed a limited
number of trucks will be allowed into
the besieged territory beginning on
Friday Israel has launched air strikes
against Gaza and sealed off the
territory from supplies since Hamas
militants entered Israel two weeks ago
and killed at least 1,400 people the UN
says more than 3,000 people have been
killed in Gaza since
then kinds of trucks containing aid for
Gaza stretching as far as the eye can
see the truck drivers are waiting and
praying to pass through Rafa border
crossing Israel's announcement that it
will not stop Aid entering Gaza could be
the key to unlocking the borderers
gates and will be sorely needed on the
other side of the Border in the town of
Rafa fuel is in very short
supply gin have no gas or electricity to
cook so they using wood burning ovens of
commercial bakeries to make bread
instead no electricity no gas and no
fuel the situation is very hard and
there's no wood I have no idea how the
owner of the bakery managed to get
wood it's the only place where we can
bake
bread we've gone back in
time meanwhile on the road leading from
Southern Gaza Strip to the north there
are physical reminders of air strikes
everywhere buildings flattened and
reduced to
Rubble the road leads to Gaza City and
the scene of what has become a hotly
disputed event the blast at alahi Arab
Hospital Hamas officials say it was the
result of an Israeli air
strike Israel say was caused by a rocket
from Palestinian militants that
misfired no matter who was responsible
the explosion has left gazin angry at
Israel and in
fear I'm afraid that they will bomb
hospitals this is very far from mercy
and Humanity they are the
enemy this was the scene near Gaza
City's Port area a three-story building
destroyed in an air
strike Witnesses said the blast killed
40 people from One extended family who
lived here or trap them under
Rubble it's a reminder of what has
become daily routine for gazin the
search for the dead and the lucky
survivors Let's cross over two gazen now
hen Bala is a journalist he joined us
now on the phone from there ham what are
you hearing about Aid deliveries being
allowed through the rougher Crossing
into
Gaza well um up to now it's up to uh
statements nothing uh got into Gaza
there are a lot of statements from uh
whether from Egyptian side or American
side as well as the Israeli government
statement that they wouldn't allow for
Aid to come from Israel but they
wouldn't stop the the um the aid that
comes to uh s Gaza STP from Egypt um up
to now I checked with the officials in
Gaza nothing has been um uh delivered or
across
intoa uh STP okay so nothing is moving
yet how badly are the current shortages
in Gaza hitting those around
you it is it is very hard and very tough
uh it's getting harder day by day um
there is a very limited um uh uh access
to water and drinking water is is like
it's um uh very very hard to get
and no uh no electricity at all uh
sometimes people I queing at the some
places like pharmacies or grocery shops
who have uh um uh solar panels to so
they charge their their mobile phones or
their equipment there is like long cues
at the bakeries as one of the bakeries
in my area like in was bombed last night
or the night before actually um um um
it's f is is very limited because the
movement of trucks is very hard from
different from City to another um we are
talking about according to the official
number about 1 million at least um uh
has been displaced uh from their homes
to different areas with the very limited
access many people are staying at Ona
facilities and they barely get some some
some food and some help from the um the
hona uh
has I I wanted to ask you about that
explosion at a hospital in Gaza City
that's drawn Global attention uh how are
gazin reacting to
that ham are you still with
us I believe we've lost the line to ham
that was uh journalist ham baloa
speaking to us in Gaza he's a journalist
based there and has been providing us
with reporting well we uh also have a
team in Jerusalem in uh also in Tel Aviv
our correspondent Rebecca ritters is in
Jerusalem right now uh Rebecca President
Biden US President Joe Biden says some
humanitarian Aid will be delivered to
Gaza through the Rafa border on Friday
but explain to us why has Israel so far
been so reluctant to allow Aid into
Gaza well there are s reasons Terry one
being that Israel is really just focused
on its uh War aims of trying to
completely destroy the Hamas
organization its military capabilities
and that has been its main focus uh the
they're also using this Siege we know
that very very early on I think it was
the second the second or third day they
announced this Siege on Gaza that they
would there would be no food fuel uh
electricity would be cut uh there would
be no
water that everything would be cut and
nothing would go into Gaza and they're
using that also as one of their tactics
now concerns about getting Aid in have
also been spoken about you know people
are worried that the aid people in
Israel excuse me are worried that the
aid will get into the wrong hands that
it will actually get to to the Hamas
militants and there's concerns also uh
from the Israelis that there could be
things other than Aid inside those
trucks perhaps weapons perhaps
possibility to to rearm or to resupply
some Hamas militants so those concerns
have definitely been uh spoken about
from the Israelis now what's changed now
is that President Biden visited
yesterday and he really pushed for some
Aid to be allowed and the Israelis have
relented Benjamin nanah who saying that
he will no longer block aid from coming
in but it is thought that there'll be an
initial uh small tranch of trucks that
will be allowed over some 20 or so there
are around 200 now amassing at that raer
Crossing uh wai to go in as we heard in
that report but an initial uh tranch of
20 or so will go in and the process will
be uh witnessed they'll be we see where
the aid is going whether it's
distributed correctly according to
Israel and then whether or not they'll
allow more to go through it's thought
that that should happen uh as soon as
tomorrow but time is of the essence as
you heard from Ham
there what are the conditions Rebecca
for those Aid deliveries at least for
these initial 20 trucks that are going
to be allowed into Gaza apparently
well incredibly difficult and that is
part of the reason for the hold up part
of the reason why it's not happening
straight away obviously everything is
being inspected in in the trucks as
we're hearing but also that the
conditions on the Garen side are
particularly difficult that area around
the rougher Crossing hasn't been spared
air strikes and they're trying to work
to try and fill some of the potholes
some of the the damage that has been
down to the road on the Garen side in
order for those trucks to be able to
pass now the uh Hospital blast in Gaza
City that's drawn so much attention it's
sparked more anger and fear in the Gaza
Strip itself uh Israel claims it was not
behind the blast is there any
independent investigation underway
Rebecca to determine what actually
happened at that
hospital as you can imagine Terry the
conditions to allow for an independent
investigation are incredibly difficult
investigators are not able to access
certainly not able to get into Gaza and
certainly not able to get to the site so
investigations are underway there are
many independent investigations also
journalists looking at the available
data that we that we have there is video
there's video of the of the the B the
bombing and and and other evidence and
and people are trying to independently
verify that the UK uh says that it's
going to carry out an independent
investigation the UN and many other
countries are calling for such an
independent investigation but so far
there's been no outcome officially from
any independent investigations and and
that will be ongoing Rebecca thank you
very much for now DW's Rebecca ritters
in
Jerusalem